# Spotify Big Data Project - Summer 2022
For Summer 2022, I will be focusing my efforts in learning more about data processing, data manipulation/preparation, data visualization, and version control by utilizing Spotify's Million Playlist Dataset. This dataset contains 1,000,000 user-generated playlists and their associated tracks and metadata. The dataset is set up as 1,000 separate JSON files. The project will be broken into three sections:
1. Data Pipelines - This will be a means of transforming the JSON data into SQL tables using Pandas and parallel computing techniques. Due to my machine's lack of memory, I will be distributing the files into 200 small batches containing 5 files each (representing 5,000 playlists).
      * The Master Pipeline will be used to process each playlist and the individual tracks for querying purposes. The resulting fact table is expected to have in excess of 50 million records.
      * The Playlist Pipeline will be used to process each playlist and its associated metadata (# of tracks, # of artists, duration, etc.). The resulting dim table is expected to have exactly 1,000,000 records.
3. Big Data Analytics Dashboard - This will be an overall exploratory visualization showcasing the top tracks, artists, and playlists within the dataset. The data will be extracted from the SQL Server data warehouse I have created in the previous section and be available on my Tableau Public profile.
4. Playlist Recommendation Engine - The purpose of this is to allow users to input their own Spotify playlists and receive recommendations as to which playlists in the data warehouse best matches their own playlists. This section focuses on machine learning techniques and will be completed in Fall 2022. 
